Experiments Data for NFM 2019
=============================

MONAA
-----

Extending MONAA, we implemented and evaluated our online algorithms for parametric timed pattern matching. We compiled our implementation using GCC 7.3.0. See also [READMD.md](../README.md).
The source code we used in the experiment is available [here](https://github.com/MasWag/monaa/tree/f6189cbf849c8a97f7d8f86e30560f5ab48f9584).


IMITATOR
--------

As a baseline, we used our previous implementation of parametric timed pattern matching based on IMITATOR  [AHW18] (version 2.10.4).

### Download

- [Source code from GitHub](https://github.com/imitator-model-checker/imitator/archive/v2.10.4.tar.gz)
- [Binary](https://github.com/imitator-model-checker/imitator/releases/download/v2.10.4/imitator-v2.10.4-amd64) (Ubuntu-like, Debian-like 64 bits); this binary is standalone and can hence be executed without any external library

Experimental raw data
---------------------

We conducted the experiments on an Amazon EC2 c4.large instance (2.9 GHz Intel Xeon E5-2666 v3, 2 vCPUs, and 3.75 GiB RAM) that runs Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (64 bit).
We compiled PPL [BHZ08] with the following options.

> --disable-dependency-tracking --enable-coefficients=checked-int64 --disable-silent-rules --enable-optimization=speed

- [timed words](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1n_uhEUyk_1x49Kd5ioZcd5-Zte9fZQhd)
- [raw experiment results generated by GNU time](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1VIBhSHHXrwcbu0DNR9G848QbOc8o6m8k)

Description of the Benchmarks
-----------------------------

In addition to the following benchmarks, 
we also used the non-parametric variants Gear-np, Accel-np, Blowup-np, and OnlyTiming-np where the parameters are substituted to specific concrete values.
In Gear-np, the parameter is substituted to 2.
In Accel-np, the parameter is substituted to 3.
In Blowup-np, the parameters are substituted to (10, 2, 1).
In OnlyTiming-np, the parameter is substituted to 1.


### Gear and Accel

Benchmark Gear inspired by the scenario of monitoring the gear change of an automatic transmission system. We conducted simulation of the model of an automatic transmission system [HAF14]. We used Breach to generate an input to this model; it generates a gear change signal that is fed to the model. A gear is chosen from {g\_1,g\_2,g\_3,g\_4}. The generated gear change is recorded in a timed word.

The of benchmark Accel is also constructed from the Simulink model of the automated transmission system [HAF14]. For this benchmark, the (discretized) value of three state variables are recorded in W: engine RPM (discretized to "high" and "low" with a certain threshold), velocity (discretized to "high" and "low" with a certain threshold), and 4 gear positions. We used Breach to generate a input sequence of gear change.

### Blowup

As a third experiment, we considered a (toy) benchmark that acts as a worst case situation for parametric timed pattern matching, coming from [AHW18].

#### OnlyTiming

As a fourth experiment, we considered another (toy) benchmark. In OnlyTiming, the parametric skip values are greater than the non-parametric skip values.


Calling MONAA-based implementations
-----------------------------------

For all case studies, the following command was used for PTPM:

>  ./build/[program] -f [pta.dot] < [timed_word.txt]

Calling IMITATOR
----------------

For all case studies, the following command was used for PTPM:

> ./imitator [case_study.imi] -mode EFunsafe -no-inclusion-test-in-EF -incl -verbose experiments -output-result

References
----------

<dl>
<dt>[AHW18]</dt>
<dd>Étienne André, Ichiro Hasuo and Masaki Waga (和賀 正樹). Offline timed pattern matching under uncertainty. In Anthony Widjaja Lin and Jun Sun (eds.), ICECCS’18, IEEE CPS, pages 10–20, December 2018.</dd>
<dt>[BHZ08]</dt>
<dd>Roberto Bagnara, Patricia M. Hill and Enea Zaffanella. The Parma Polyhedra Pibrary: Toward a Complete Set of Numerical Abstractions for the Analysis and Verification of Hardware and Software Systems. Science of Computer Programming, 72(1–2):3–21, 2008.</dd>
<dt>[HAF14]</dt>
<dd>Bardh Hoxha, Houssam Abbas, Georgios E. Fainekos: Benchmarks for Temporal Logic Requirements for Automotive Systems. ARCH@CPSWeek 2014: 25-30.</dd>
</dl>
